We're missing the loading spinner because in the auth reducer, I'm setting loading
when we do start the login process but I'm not setting it when we start the sign-up process.
Good thing is we can simply register a second case here,
thanks to switch case statements falling through automatically, so we can group multiple cases and run
the same code
and here, we can also handle sign-up start,
so that should set loading to true. Another thing I'm not liking is that in auth component,
we're setting this error to null when we handle the error, we call handle error when we click that button
in the modal we open,
also, we have our subscription to our store which we're not unsubscribing from.
First of all, let's handle that subscription to the storeSub which is of type subscription,
let's set up the subscription here,
this storeSub is equal to our subscription we create here and in ngOnDestroy,
if we have a storeSub which we should, so this check is kind of not required,
we can unsubscribe here.
So that's one thing, now
regarding the error handling, resetting the error here in the component and not doing it in the NgRx
state is not really that great because it means that our NgRx state is not in sync with the state
in this component, NgRx should be the only source of truth
however, at least for all the state it manages, so kind of duplicating state management is something
you should avoid.
Therefore let's add a new action, clear error or handle error, which also has that auth prefix, clear error,
something like that.
Let's create an object for that action, clear error implements an action, has a readonly type which is
equal to clear error, so to this identifier. We need no constructor because no payload needs to be added
but I do want to add it here to this union type and now we can handle it in the reducer, here in the
reducer,
I add a new case, auth actions clear error in which case I want to return the old state but set the auth
error to null, so that we have no error here in the NgRx state
and now we can dispatch this from inside the auth component instead of setting this error here.
So here, I will instead call this store dispatch auth actions,
a new auth actions
clear error like that
and this is now the cleaner approach for handling this because now, the NgRx state and the local
state are in sync.
So now if I try logging in with wrong credentials again, we get an error and I can still handle it and
it works as before
but now it's a bit cleaner.
With that, we're almost done with managing all effects that are related to NgRx,
the remaining pieces are that I also want to redirect when I do logout,
I do redirect but I do that with the help of my auth service and that's not how I want to do it anymore.
Instead of redirecting here in the logout function in the auth service, I want to do that with the help of
my effects and then we'll also have to find a solution for all the local storage management here.
So first of all, let's add an effect for logging out that redirects us and actually, we already have an effect
here that redirects us.
Currently, it's called auth success but we can rename this, we can name it auth redirect because that is really
what we do in this effect.
Now we do react to the authenticate success action but as I mentioned, you can react to multiple actions
here, so we can also react to auth actions, logout and call redirect there as well,
this allows me to remove that here from auth service logout.
In addition, I'm currently dispatching logout here from inside logout,
well that is not really what I want to do, instead
let's dispatch this from inside the component where we do trigger logout and that would be our header
component.
So here instead of calling this auth service logout, let's use this store dispatch and now dispatch a
new auth action, for which we need to import it first of all.
So import everything as auth actions from the auth folder, store auth actions
and with that, I'll import it into the header, here we can create a new logout action.
Now we don't use the service for that.
This also means that since we now skip the service, we are not setting
removing that from a local storage but we already have the problem that we're not setting anything in
local storage, which is, if you watch closely, why we always restart in unauthenticated mode.
If I do login and I reload, we're back unauthenticated because we're not storing anything in local storage
and therefore our auto login logic doesn't succeed because the parts where we would have accessed local
storage, here in handle authentication, we're not calling this anymore. Handle authentication was called
from inside login and from inside sign-up but we're not using these methods anymore,
indeed we can actually remove these methods here and our application will still work because we're not
using them. Hence
now the goal will be to kind of transfer this existing logic for managing our user data in the local
storage into the @ngrx/effects world as well.